# Stock-Market-Project
This project aims to predict the BSE stock market's closing price using a combination of market news and historical stock data. By applying Regression and LSTM machine learning models, it predicts stock values based on factors like open, close, low, high, and volume. The goal is to improve stock market predictions using these models.
# INTRODUCTION
A correct prediction of stocks can lead to huge profits for the seller and the broker. Frequently, it is brought out that prediction is chaotic rather than random, which means it can be predicted by carefully analyzing the history of respective stock market. Machine learning is an efficient way to represent such processes. It predicts a market value close to the tangible value, thereby increasing the accuracy. Introduction of machine learning to the area of stock prediction has appealed to many researches because of its efficient and accurate measurements. The vital part of machine learning is the dataset used. The dataset should be as concrete as possible because a little change in the data can perpetuate massive changes in the outcome [2]. In this project, supervised machine learning is employed on a dataset obtained from Yahoo Finance. This dataset comprises of following five variables: open, close, low, high and volume. Open, close, low and high are different bid prices for the stock at separate times with nearly direct names. The volume is the number of shares that passed from one owner to another during the time period. The model is then tested on the test data. Regression and LSTM models are engaged for this conjecture separately. Regression involves minimizing error and LSTM [3][4] contributes to remembering the data and results for the long run. Finally, the graphs for the fluctuation of prices with the dates (in case of Regression based model) and between actual and predicted price (for the LSTM based model) are plotted.
# Problem Statement
Time Series forecasting & modelling plays an important role in data analysis. Time series analysis is a specialized branch of statistics used extensively in fields such as Econometrics & Operation Research. Time Series is being widely used in analytics & data science. Stock prices are volatile in nature and price depends on various factors. The main aim of this project is to predict stock prices using Long short term memory (LSTM).
# Objective
Stock analysis involves comparing a company’s current financial statement to its financial statements in previous years to give an investor a sense of whether the company is growing, stable, or deteriorating. The financial statement of a company can also be compared to that of one or more other companies within the same industry. A stock analyst may be looking to compare the operating profit margin of two competing companies, by looking at their income statements.
# Requirements
PYTHON 3.9.6
PyCharm\ VScode \ “Or Any Python IDE”
CMD
PowerShell
# Methodology
Stock market prediction seems a complex problem because there are many factors that have yet to be proper use of machine learning techniques, one can relate previous data to the current data and train the machine to learn from it and make appropriate assumptions. Machine learning as such has many models but this paper focuses on two most important of them and made the predictions using them. We need to split our dataset into three parts: training dataset, test dataset and validation dataset. The purpose of splitting data is to avoid overfitting which is paying attention to minor details/noise which is not necessary and only optimizes the training dataset accuracy. We need a model that performs well on a dataset that it has never seen (test data), which is called generalization. The training set is the actual subset of the dataset that we use to train the model. The model observes and learns from this data and then optimizes its parameters. The validation dataset is used to select hyperparameters (learning rate, regularization parameters). When the model is performing well enough on our validation dataset, we can stop learning using a training dataset. The test set is the remaining subset of data used to provide an unbiased evaluation of a final model fit on the training dataset. Data is split as per a split ratio which is highly dependent on the type of model we are building and the dataset itself. If our dataset and model are such that a lot of training is required, then we use a larger chunk of the data just for training which is our case. If the model has a lot of hyperparameters that can be tuned, then we need to take a higher amount of validation dataset. Models with a smaller number of hyperparameters are easy to tune and update, and so we can take a smaller validation dataset. In our approach, we have dedicated 80% of the dataset as the training data and the remaining 20% as the testing data, which makes the split ratio as 0.8:0.2 of train to test set. Out of the training data, we have used 20% as a validation data set. Overall, 64% of the dataset is used for training, 16% for validation and 20% for testing.
# Setup
How to run the project:
1. Open the command prompt on the same folder where the project file is present.
2. Type “streamlit run code.py”.
# Conclusion
Two techniques have been utilized in this paper: LSTM and Regression, on the Yahoo finance dataset. Both the techniques have shown an improvement in the accuracy of predictions, thereby yielding positive results. Use of recently introduced machine learning techniques in the prediction of stocks have yielded promising results and thereby marked the use of them in profitable exchange schemes. It has led to the conclusion that it is possible to predict stock market with more accuracy and efficiency using machine learning techniques. In the future, the stock market prediction system can be further improved by utilizing a much bigger dataset than the one being utilized currently. This would help to increase the accuracy of our prediction models. Furthermore, other models of Machine Learning could also be studied to check for the accuracy rate resulted by them.
